International Travel Approval (ITA) Request – Kiran Sabbineni 
Laos Energy Security (LES) 
Project YR 1 
Date: March 10, 2023

A.	ITA Request and Statement of Work

The key focus of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Laos Energy Security (LES) Activity supports GOL efforts to achieve a resilient and financially viable power sector that contributes to the national goal of green and sustainable economic growth through three main objectives:
1. Improving energy sector planning
2. Strengthening the energy sector’s policy, legal, and regulatory environment
3. Improving the performance of the state-owned utility
As part of this effort, the ESG Distribution Engineering Team Leader (DETL), Kiran Sabbineni will visit Vientiane to conduct introductory meetings and consultations with EdL and MEM to facilitate work planning for key year 1 activities. Energy and Security Group, LLC requests your approval for the following international travel.
Traveler	Divya Kiran Teja Sabbineni
Proposed itinerary	Departure: 26 March 2023	Toronto (Canada) – Vientiane
Return: 11 April 2023	Vientiane - Toronto (Canada)
Passport & visa	Passport #: Z5027077
Date of Expiration: May 14, 2029
Purpose of trip	•	Meetings with relevant stakeholders in EdL and MEM to initiate key activities under Objectives 1 and 3. 
•	Meetings with Numark and stakeholders within the GoL to further the development of the Terms of Reference (ToRs) of Objectives 1 and 3, 
Est. travel costs	$ 3,500 (est.)	Airfare (economy class)
	$ 3,530.00	Per diem M&IE (212*16) + (69*2)
LOE for this trip	LOE 13 days

The ESG DETL will develop technical deliverables related to LES Objectives 1 and 3; principally related to conducting consultations with EdL and MEM as part of the baseline assessment before initiating key activities. An assessment of capacity-building needs within the Training Center will also be conducted during this trip.

B.	Tasks and Deliverables

Tasks and Deliverables
Objective-1
Consultations with EdL to conduct a baseline review of the Lao power grid to identify key issues, challenges, off-grid and on-grid potential, current energy generation resources, demand growth, productive use applications, and other relevant information. 
Conduct consultations to review EdL and MEM’s existing planning software, use cases, and key features of tools being used.
Assess capacity to coordinate modelling and analysis among MEM departments and EdL.
Consultations with EdL to assess current practices for developing GIS models and SLDs. 
Objective-3
Conduct consultations with EdL to assess existing practices of tracking distribution system reliability.
Consultations with EdL for a baseline assessment of data management tools and processes required to monitor, measure, and manage system reliability performance benchmarks 
Meetings with EdL to review existing policies, practices, and grid expansion criteria
Assess capacity-building needs within the Training Center and identify candidates for technical and pedagogy refresher training/upskilling

C.	 Expected Outcomes 
The following outcomes are expected from this trip: 
•	Baseline assessment report on data management tools and processes currently used to monitor and measure distribution system reliability. 
•	Baseline assessment report of existing policies, practices, and grid expansion criteria.
•	Recommendations on improving coordination in Power System Analysis and, use of tools and models between relevant departments of EdL and MEM.
•	EDL’s Capacity-building needs assessment furthered.  
•	Activity: Assess the current use of power system simulation software packages by EdL and evaluate the effectiveness of software packages for specific functions within EdL
o	Deliverable: Updated concept paper and recommendations on the existing software packages, their functionalities, and their use across different business units within EdL
•	Activity: Identify potential training needs and schedules for each software package (Power Factory, Plexos, Excel, and HOMER) to ensure effective adoption and use.
o	Deliverable: Updated ToR section for planning softwares
•	Activity: Facilitate coordination between software vendors and the training program under LES (If Plexos procurement proceeds)
o	Deliverable: Established communication channels and collaboration agreements between software vendors, EdL, and the LES training program
•	Activity: Explore opportunities for collaboration and knowledge sharing withing GOL organizations (EdL, MEM, DEPP) using software packages for similar functions. 
o	Deliverable: Established partnerships and knowledge-sharing networks with other teams to share best practices and lessons learned in using power system simulation software packages
